README.md, before:

# Bayesian calibration of stochastic agent based model via random forest

This repository contains the code used for the paper "Bayesian calibration of stochastic agent based model via random forest".
It contains hospitalization and death data produced by the CityCOVID agent based model.
It also provides code to train a Random Forest surrogate model for CityCOVID hospitalizations and deaths, calculate a Bayesian estimate of parameters from CityCOVID using this surrogate, and then produce plots and data of this calibration.

## Installation
All dependencies can be installed by running `make install_deps`.
Specifics can be found below.

### Python
The code in this repository makes use of the following `python` packages:
- `matplotlib`
- `numpy`
- `pandas`
- `properscoring`
- `pymcmcstat` (from updated version [here](https://github.com/cnrrobertson/pymcmcstat))
- `seaborn`
- `scikit-learn`

These can easily be installed by running `make install_python` if you have `conda` or `pip` already on your system.
Alternatively, they can be installed with `pip` via `pip install -r requirements.txt` or with `conda/mamba` via `conda env create -f environment.yml`.

### R
The code in this repository makes use of the following `R` packages:
- `ggdist`
- `coda`
- `mcgibbsit`
- `scoringutils`

These can easily be installed by running `make install_r` as long as `R` is already installed on your system.

## Usage
Reproduction of the results and plots can most easily be done by running `make all_surrogate` followed by `make all_calibration` and `make compare`.

The above runs various scripts from `scripts/` which make use of some utility functions in `src/` and data from `data/` to output files into `results/` and plots into `plots/`.
See `make help` or `make` for more information on individual scripts.

Commit message:

update readme for both papers

README.md, after:

# CityCOVID Calibration

This repository contains the code used for the papers:

- [Bayesian calibration of stochastic agent based model via random forest]()
- [Advancing calibration for stochastic agent-based models in epidemiology with stein variational inference and gaussian process surrogates]()

It also contains hospitalization and death data produced by the [CityCOVID]() agent based model.
As part of these papers, it provides code to train a Random Forest or Gaussian Process surrogate model for CityCOVID hospitalizations and deaths, calculate a Bayesian or Stein variational estimate of parameters from CityCOVID using the surrogate, and then produce plots and data of these estimates.

## Installation
Package installation for this code is mostly easily accomplished using [pixi]().
All dependencies can be installed by running `pixi install` in the repository root.
However, specifics can be found below.

### Python
The code in this repository makes use of the following `python` packages:
- `matplotlib`
- `numpy`
- `pandas`
- `properscoring`
- `pymcmcstat` (from updated version [here](https://github.com/cnrrobertson/pymcmcstat))
- `seaborn`
- `scikit-learn`

### R
The code in this repository makes use of the following `R` packages:
- `ggdist`
- `coda`
- `mcgibbsit`
- `scoringutils`

## Usage
Instructions to reproduce each paper can be found in the `papers/**/README.md` files.
However, generally, the various scripts from `scripts/**` will be used to call utility functions in `src/` using data from `data/` and will output files into `results/**` and plots into `plots/**`.
